The authors have substantially improved the discussion of the stacking measurement and fitting. The paper is now nearly
ready for publication and I would be happy to accept it after two more major question are addressed and the addition of
quantitative information for some of the new arguments.

Remaining major question 1:

In the response to the second referee report and in the caption of Figure 5, the authors state that the Monte Carlo
simulation absorption is shifted to match the centroid of the absorption. Am I correct in understanding that this is
done to force a match between the observed absorption shift and the Monte Carlo model? If so, this would seem to
invalidate the claim by the paper that the observed velocity shift can be explained by anisotropic and/or intermittent
quasar radiation combined with the Hubble flow. Why can't the shift be reproduced by the Monte Carlo model which
includes all of these effects? If the model cannot reproduce the shift, then some of the major conclusions of the
paper, including the last sentence of the abstract, are not supported. I am sufficiently puzzled by this that I request
the opportunity to review the paper one more time before acceptance. Please clarify and explain the need for an
artificial velocity shift in order for the Monte Carlo model to match the observed stack.

Remaining major question 2:

In the Monte Carlo model, the authors adopt a sigma_rms scatter of 246 km/s based on the expected rms velocity for
quasar host halos. But the absorption systems being considered in the model are in the Hubble flow at significant
cosmological distance, not in the quasar host halo. Why then is a sigma_rms from massive halos appropriate? Does the
adoption of a different sigma_rms change the results?

Other points for improvement:

1) Explicitly state the flux level of the psuedo-continuum by adding it to Table 2

2) Similarly, the paper must explicitly give the width of the second Guassian component and equivalent width discussed
on page 6. This means providing actual numbers with uncertainties in the text rather than qualitative assertions.

3) The discussion of a bias from CII* is not convincing as is (though I am certain that the claim of small bias is
correct). In order to make the given argument convincing, the authors need to give quantitative constraints on the mean
CII to CII* ratio and then translate this ratio into an estimated bias. Again, the paper must include specific,
quantitative information on the estimated level of this bias rather than simply assert that it is insignificant.

4) On the color scheme in Figure 6: Anything that does not involve red and green would be a significant improvement.
This figure could be made in greyscale, coolmap, heatmap, or any number of other options. Alternative, a color scheme
could be dropped entirely by plotting the 1, 2, and 3 sigma regions in solid, dashed, and dotted line respectively. Or
different hatching schemes could be used for each reason.