The added discussion of quasar redshift measurement techniques and associated uncertainties is now quite clear. As a
result, the interpretation of the width and offset in the mean stack of absorbing quasar host CGM is more convincing.

However, I have significant major concerns that the authors need to address in order for the paper to be accepted. Some
of these are new, but most were points raised in the first referee report that were not adequately addressed or were
misunderstood. These concerns are outlined in the following. In addition I include suggestions to make the measured
shift in the mean absorption profile more convincing and clarify the interpretation in the discussion section.

=== Major concern 1: failure to capture velocity spread of the absorption and misuse of the central limit theorem

In response to one of my concerns, the authors now motivate Gaussian fitting to the mean absorption profile using the
central limit theorem. This is a fundamental misuse of the central limit theorem. The central limit theorem implies
(under fairly loose assumptions) that the sums of random variables will tend towards a normal distribution. This means,
for example, that the measured flux in a particular pixel of the stack will be normally distributed. But it *does not*
imply that the mean line profiles themsleves will be Gaussian. While there are conditions under which mean line
profiles will converge to a Gaussian, these are significantly more demanding conditions that typically do not apply to
astrophysical measurements and objects. For example, the mean stack of point sources in ground based images will not
converge to a Gaussian because of the large fraction of flux contained in wings of the PSF. Similarly, mean line
profiles in stacks are often far from Gaussian such as: both broad and narrow quasar emission lines (Schneider+2010,
Shen+2016b), galaxy emission lines (Cicone+2016), and associated quasar absorption lines which are distinctly
non-Gaussian as shown in Figure 9 of this paper.

Previous QPQ papers (Prochaska & Hennawi 2009, Lau+2016) and those from other authors (e.g. Tripp+2011, Johnson+2015,
Rudie+2017) have shown that AGN and quasar hosts often exhibit absorbing gas at "extreme" velocities of 500-1000 km/s.
Indeed, these extreme velocities are discussed in the introduction. However, it is clear that the extreme velocities
are not being captured by the measured Gaussian fit.

This concern is raised not only by the previous works but also by careful examination of Figure 2. In particular the
pseudo-continuum level in the mean stack is systematically lower than in the median stack for all three ions
considered. This indicates that there is additional absorption at large velocities which is not being captured by the
analysis in the paper but is instead being erroneously folded into the pseudo-continuum estimate.

This is a major issue with the adopted methodology that must be addressed with careful thought, new
experiments/testing, and detailed discussion.

=== Major concern 2: insufficient detail in how the doublet fitting is performed.

I thank the authors for specifying the allowed range of doublet ratio. However, additional information is still needed
on the doublet fitting, particularly regarding the pseudo continuum.

The doublet ratio is degenerate with centroid in some cases, particularly for CIV and this possible degeneracy is not
discussed.

Depending on how the pseudo continuum fitting is performed, it could potentially suppress any broad wings in the mean
absorption profile. The authors have most likely taken steps to prevent this from happening. But if so, these steps are
note specified.f

Provide additional details addressing both of these points.

=== Main concern 3: mis-representation of papers in the literature

While most of these have been corrected, one remains and a new one has been added. In particular, both Tripp+2011 and
Rudie+2017 found absorbing gas spread over ~1000 km/s which is comparable to the velocity spreads from the QPQ series
that are discussed as extreme in the introduction. The main conclusions of Tripp+2011 and Rudie+2017 focus on these
large velocity spreads and the current description in the introduction is therefore misleading.

=== In addition:

A) To more convincingly demonstrate that the velocity shift in the measured mean absorption profile is real the authors
should:

1) Remove possible contamination from absorption systems associated with the background quasar. The paper stacks the
background spectra for pairs in which the redshift difference between the foreground and background quasar is
>3000 km/s in order to prevent contamination by physical quasar pairs in the presence of redshift uncertainty. However,
quasars also exhibit narrow associated absorption systems at large velocities of up to ~12,000 km/s (Wild+2008) which
could also artificially introduce an asymmetry into the experiment. The authors can easily demonstrate that this is not
the case by repeating the stacking procedure on quasars pairs with a more restrictive range of allowed velocity
separation of >12,000 km/s.

2) Demonstrating that CII* cannot bias the measurement of the CII velocity centroid. Previous QPQ papers have
identified CII* absorption in the CGM of quasars. This absorption feature is blue-shifted from the ground state
transition by 260 km/s which is comparable to the measured offset. With data from Lau+2016, the authors can easily
demonstrate that contamination from CII* is not responsible for the observed shift.

B) To demonstrate that the quasar variability effect can plausibly produce the observed shift from Hubble flow alone
the authors need to calculate the distance to which the quasars can substantially contribute to the UV background and
convert this distance to a line-of-sight velocity assuming Hubble flow. Most of the work for this has already been done
for the calculation of g_UV for Figure 1 and Table 1 so only a few additional steps are needed. Implementing this
calculation in the Monte Carlo approach in Section 3.3 would be particularly convincing.

C) To clarify the discussion the authors should:
1) Rephrase or expand the sentence/paragraph: "As a test of reasonableness, we calculate that, for a quasar opening
angle of 120...". It is not clear what calculation was performed and how it represents a test of reasonableness.
2) Remove the sentence "Light from the background quasar will travel smaller distance to reach the gas behind the
foreground quasar than the gas in front of it." It is repetitive and the subsequent sentence explains this physical
picture more clearly.
3) The last sentence of the paper is misleading because the observed velocity shift cannot be explained by
gravitational motion.

Finally, I would like to thank the authors for going the extra mile and researching color choices that improve figure
legibility for color blind readers. However, the stated change does not appear to have been implemented in Figure 6.
Since the work has already been done, implementing the color change would be an easy correction.